Quiz 1:

Question 1: One of the components of a computer is its CPU. What is a CPU and what role does it play in a computer?
Answer: The Central Processing Unit executes a program that is stored as a sequence of machine language instructions in the main memory.

Question 2:  Explain what is meant by an "asynchronous event." Give some examples.
Answer: Asynchronous events are events that can happen at unpredictable times. An example of this could be an error or a sudden and unexpected input to the
machine.

Question 3:  What is the difference between a "compiler" and an "interpreter"?
A compiler translates the entire program into machine language at one time, but can be run on the same computer any number of times, however if it needs to be
run on a different computer it would need to be compiled again. Interpreter translates language into machine language at an instruction by instruction level,
only interpreting as needed in a repeating loop.

Question 4:  Explain the difference between high-level languages and machine language.
High level languages such as Python, Java or C++ are the understandable languages used by programmers to build their programs. However, they cannot be run directly
on any computer. High-level languages instead need to be interpretted into machine language that are simple instructions that can be executed directly by the CPU.

Question 5: If you have the source code for a Java program, and you want to run that program, you will need both a compiler and an interpreter. What does the Java
compiler do, and what does the Java interpreter do?
The Java compiler translates high-level language into machine language that can be run on a JVM (Java Virtual Machine) called Java Bytecode. The Java Interpreter
required is dependent on the system that it needs to run on, however it interprets the Java Bytecode into machine language that the operating system can understand.

Question 6: What is a subroutine?
A subroutine is a set of instructions that are grouped to perform a certain task. Such as, print() is a group of instructions that is used to print a message.

Question 7:  Java is an object-oriented programming language. What is an object?
An object is a module containing data and subroutines, which has an internal state (data) and can process messages (calls to subroutines.)

Question 8: What is a variable? (There are four different ideas associated with variables in Java. Try to mention all four aspects in your answer.
Hint: One of the aspects is the variable's name.)
A variable is a memory location that has been given a name so that it can be referred to and used by a program. The four different idas associated with variables
in Java are that is has a name, location, type and a value.

Question 9: Java is a "platform-independent language." What does this mean?
Java is compiled into Java Bytecode which can be run on any platform, the platform just needs to have its own interpreter to run the Bytecode into its
associated machine language. So once compiled, Java does not need to be compiled again to run on different platforms.

Question 10: What is the "Internet"? Give some examples of how it is used. (What kind of services does it provide?)
The internet is a network that spans globally, connecting computers across the network. It can be accessed from any location to provide information and data
that would otherwise either take time to access or be inaccessible, such as visiting websites.


Quiz 2:

Question 1: Briefly explain what is meant by the syntax and the semantics of a programming language. Give an example to illustrate the difference between a
syntax error and a semantics error.
Syntax are the basic vocabulary of the language, the program is syntactically correct if it is able to be compiled without errors. The semantics are the meaning
behind the program. Syntax error would be using the incorrect language or operation to perform a task and thus being unable to be compiled. While a semantics error
can be compiled but will give the incorrect result, i.e. using division in an int variable will round the number, which is a problem if the user wanted precision
to decimal places.

Question 2:  What does the computer do when it executes a variable declaration statement. Give an example.
When the program declares a variable, it assigns a location and gives it a name.
"double number;" would create a memory location for a double-type variable and name it 'number'

Question 3: What is a type, as this term relates to programming?
Type when assigned to a variable, is limiting the variable to what data that it would be able to store. As per above example, int would limit a variable to only
hold whole number integers.

Question 4: One of the primitive types in Java is boolean. What is the boolean type? Where are boolean values used? What are its possible values?
A boolean type is a binary type that can either be True or False. Booleans are usually used when the data will only need to be considered to be either True or False.
I.e. If something is On then On would be True, if it were Off, then On would be false.

Question 5a: What is the meaning of ++?
++ will incrementally add 1 to a variable.

Question 5b: What is the meaning of &&?
&& is the shorthand of comparing/using two expressions using 'And'.

Question 5c: What is the meaning of !=?
!= is the shorthand of 'Does not Equal' used in expressions.

Question 6: Explain what is meant by an assignment statement, and give an example. What are assignment statements used for?
Assignment statements are used to assign value to a variable.
Eg. int number = 1 would assign the value of '1' to an int type variable named 'number'

Question 7: What is meant by precedence of operators?
Precedence of operators is the prioritised order that they would be executed by the program from a statement.
Multiplication has a higher precedence than addition.

Question 8:  What is a literal?
A literal is something that is typed into the program to represent a value, it's a name for a constant value.

Question 9: In Java, classes have two fundamentally different purposes. What are they?
Classes have two fundamentally different purposes, first is that they group together variables and subroutines and second they can be used to describe objects.

Question 10: What is the difference between the statement "x = TextIO.getDouble();" and the statement "x = TextIO.getlnDouble();"
While they will both capture the next double type input and assign it to the variable x, getlnDouble will continue reading input until the user presses enter,
extra characters will be discarded though.

Question 11: Explain why the value of the expression 2 + 3 + "test" is the string "5test" while the value of the expression "test" + 2 + 3 is the string "test23".
What is the value of "test" + 2 * 3 ?
The difference is the order that the statement would be processed. The program would add the numbers together and then add the string to the end of the value, where
the second statement would append the numbers to the string value. The precedence rules would take effect in the last statement, with multiple running first the numbers
would be multiplied together and then added to the string literal. Result would be 'test6'

Question 12:  Integrated Development Environments such as Eclipse often use syntax coloring, which assigns various colors to the characters in a program to reflect
the syntax of the language. A student notices that Eclipse colors the word String differently from int, double, and boolean. The student asks why String should be a
different color, since all these words are names of types. What's the answer to the student's question?
The answer is that String is a class in Java and not one of the primitive variable types.

Question 13: What is the purpose of an import directive, such as import textio.TextIO or import java.util.Scanner?
The purpose of import is to import the variables and subroutines from another Class or package to be used within the program.

Question 14: Write a complete program that asks the user to enter the number of "widgets" they want to buy and the cost per widget. The program should then output
the total cost for all the widgets. Use System.out.printf to print the cost, with two digits after the decimal point. You do not need to include any comments in
the program.

import textio.TextIO;

public class WidgetsCost {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int numberOfWidgets;
        double widgetCost;
        double widgetTotal;
        System.out.print("How many widgets? ");
        numberOfWidgets = TextIO.getlnDouble();
        System.out.print("What is the cost per widget? ");
        widgetCost = TextIO.getlnDouble();
        widgetTotal = numberOfWidgets * widgetCost;
        System.out.printf("The total cost of the Widgets is: $%1.2f", widgetTotal);
    }
}
